mind your decisions i'm presh tallwalker
a sinisterly simple math puzzle for
elementary school kids
stumps japanese twitter adults according
to soranews24
here's the puzzle the two numbers 99 and
combine to be 27 then 45 and 27 combine
to be 18
39 and 18 combine to be 21
36 and 21 combine to be a mystery number
28 and the mystery number combine to be
and 21 and 13 combine to be seven
what is the rule to combine numbers and
what is the value of the missing number
pause the video if you'd like to give
this problem a try and when you're ready
keep watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
at first glance it seems that the rule
is to subtract the smaller number
from the larger number for example
99 minus 72 is equal to 27.
we can check the next case it is again
true
that 45 minus 27
is equal to 18.
if we continue we can then see that 39
minus 18 is equal to 21.
so we then would have 36 minus 21 would
be equal to 15.
if we then continue we would see that 28
minus 15
is equal to 13. so finally we would have
minus 13 and that should be equal to 8
but the very last number is equal to 7
and this
is not a typo therefore this cannot be
the rule
we have to think of some other simple
rule to combine the numbers
so let's examine the very last three
numbers
how can we combine 21 and 13 to get
seven after some experimentation
you might come across the possibility of
summing
the digits in the two numbers so we have
two plus one
plus one plus three and that in fact
is equal to seven so we have a new
candidate for the rule
we can then check all the other cases
let's consider 99 and 72 well 9 plus 9
plus 7 plus 2 is equal to 27
so it works for the next case
for 45 and 27 we have 4 plus 5
plus 2 plus 7 and that is equal to 18.
so it works in the next case we can see
this rule works
for all of the data that is provided in
the puzzle
39 and 18 will have a sum of digits
equal to 21
so then we would have 36 and 21
if we add up the digits in these two
numbers we will get
3 plus 6 plus 2 plus 1 and that's equal
to 12. thus that's the candidate
so we'll just go ahead and check we have
28 and 12
so the sum of those digits will be equal
to 13 and finally we already checked
that 21 and 13 the sum of the digits
will be equal to 7.
thus the rule is to add up the digits in
the two numbers
and therefore the mystery number is
equal to 12
and that's our answer thanks for making
us one of the best communities on
youtube
see you next episode of mind your
decisions where we solve the world's
problems
one video at a time
[Music]